=STELLOPT Compilation on Centos= 

This page details how to compile the STELLOPT family of codes on [[@https://www.centos.org/|CentOS]]. In order to do so you will need to install [[@http://gcc.gnu.org/|GNU based compilers]] on your Linux machine. In principle this set of steps should work for any Linux based distribution which uses the [[@http://rpm.org/|Redhat Package Manager (RPM)]] based package management.
----
Installation Steps
# Verify that your version of CentOS is up to date.
# Use [[@http://yum.baseurl.org/|yum]] to install your packages. For this example we're using gfortran 4.4 but you may substitute any other version.
{{{
yum install gcc*
yum install openmpi*
yum install lapack*
}}}
# Now we need to install external packages. Pleas visit the [[@http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL|Fedora page]] for the latest stable version of the EPEL.
{{{
wget http://mirrors.mit.edu/epel/6/i386/epel-release-6-8.noarch.rpm
rpm -Uvh epel-release-6-8.noarch.rpm
yum -assumeyes install netcdf*
yum install ncl*
yum install hdf5*
}}}
# Before compiling you'll need to load openmpi
{{{
module load openmpi-x86_64
}}}
# Now create a directory in which you wish to compile STELLOPT and place the STELLOPT ZIP file in that directory. Then unzip it.
# You'll need to install the [[@http://w3.pppl.gov/ntcc/PSPLINE/|PSPLINE library]] so create a new directory call PSPLINE and download the PSPLINE tarball into it. Then run the following commands (note use gmake, make causes problems)
{{{
mkdir PSPLINE
cd PSPLINE
cp <PATH_TO_PSLINE>/pspline.tar.gz .
tar xvf pspline.tar.gz
gmake FORTRAN_VARIANT=GCC LIBDIR=/usr/lib64 NETCDF_DIR=/usr/
}}}
# Unzip stellinstall
# Now you should be able to run the setup script and compile the STELLOPT family of codes.