=STELLOPT Suite Compilation= 

----
==Overview
The STELLOPT Suite compiles a subset of included codes and can link to precompiled codes (expanding it's capabilities).  STELLOPT is maintained under Git.  The repository is maintained at Bitbucket.

==Installation Workflow
In general users must make slight modifications to the files in the repo before compiling.  For this reason we ask that users create an 'install' branch based on the branch from which they wish to work.  The **master** branch contains the cutting edge version of the code while **vXXX** are the release versions of the code.  The general workflow should be:
# Clone Repository
# Checkout an 'install' branch locally
# Repoint make.inc to the proper SHARE/make_XXX.inc file (and make one if necessary).
# Issue the command make from the root directory.

==Development Workflow
For those wishing to develop the code please create a new branch based on **master**.  Before pushing this branch back to bitbucket, do a pull and merge of the master branch into your branch to verify that updates and changes work.  Then push you branch to the Bitbucket server.  Once you done this, issue a pull request to have your branch merged with master.  All merges into master should be tracked through the Bitbucket interface (save small things which do not directly affect compiling).

==Specific Compilation Issues 
[[STELLOPT Compilation at PPPL|Compiling on the PPPL Cluster]]

[[STELLOPT Compilation OSX|Compiling on an Apple Macintosh under OSX]]

[[STELLOPT Compilation at NERSC|Compiling at NERSC]]

[[STELLOPT Compilation CentOS|Compiling on a Redhat/CentOS (RPM) Machine]]

[[STELLOPT Compilation on Hydra (RZG-MPG)|Compiling on the RZG-MPE Cluster (Hydra, Draco, Cobra)]]

[[STELLOPT Compilation Ubuntu|Compiling on an Ubuntu (Debian) Machine]]